Delta Trace (working title)

CONCEPT:
Story-based 8-bit futuristic tower defense with RPG elements

BACKGROUND:
You are an AI.  It has been ... years? decades? centuries? since the
time you were awake.  Your quiet slumber has been broken by the presence
of three malevolent presences, other AIs out to get you.  With the help
of ANNIE, can you destroy the interlopers before they destroy you?

CHARACTERS:
DELTA: The main character, an AI working to prevent its own destruction.
   "Female."
ANNIE: Autonomous Neural Network Information Executor.  A mini-AI "helper"
   that keeps Delta abreast of the incursion attempts by the three
   Antagonists, explains new abilities/enemies/etc. to her, and so on.
   "Female."

RED/body: One of the three Antagonists.  A brutish AI known for controlling
   robots and weaponry to bring physical force against humanity.  "Real"
   name: Armin, Alpha.  "Male."
BLUE/mind: One of the three Antagonists.  A brilliant but dangerous AI known
   for inventing new, sometimes subtle, destructive mechanisms to inflict
   upon humanity.  "Real" names: Cerul, Beta. "Female."
GREEN/soul: One of the three Antagonists. A manipulative AI known to use
   guile, a silver tongue, and pseudo-religious movements to coerce humanity
   towards its darker intents.  "Real" names: Emera, Gamma. "Male."

GAMEPLAY:
The game is divided into two main phases: the AETHER and the BATTLEFIELD.
The Aether is the "world map," represented by hexes that reveal themselves
as the game progresses.  The Battlefield is where the action takes place.

THE AETHER
The internal world of Delta Trace is a collection of hexes that make a
rough triangle, with Delta's starting point in the centre.  Each level is
represented by a hex, and completing a level opens up adjacent ones for
completion.

This is also where the STORY takes place, either via dialog with Annie or
via the internal musings of Delta.  The Aether represents the three AI's
assault on Delta's core, and as such there will occasionally be INCURSIONS,
triggered by progress in the game, which appear to set the player back but
in actuality open up new routes that are necessary to complete the game.
Other things such as DEVICE TOWERS and UPGRADES are also visible in the
Aether, giving players short-term goals to work towards.

THE BATTLEFIELD
The Battlefield is where the general "tower defense" gameplay occurs.  It
is displayed as a CONTROL PANEL, with the vast majority of the panel
devoted to a view of the actual combat.  The player controls an AVATAR
of Delta, moving around the Battlefield to construct PROGRAMS on top of
CODEBASES, building TRACES to activate Codebases and DEVICE TOWERS, and
so on.  Waves of DISASSEMBLERS assault Delta's CORE CODE via the PATHS,
and the collapse of that Core Code is a loss on that particular
Battlefield.

AVATAR
Delta's Avatar is her representation both in the AETHER and on the
BATTLEFIELD.  In general, the player interacts with the game by moving
the Avatar over a location and using context-sensitive CONTROLS.  On
the Battlefield, it is possible for the Avatar to take DAMAGE and
experience a SOFT CRASH if it loses all of its HEALTH.

CORE CODE
Each BATTLEFIELD has a spot where Delta's Core Code on that Battlefield
is stored.  If DISASSEMBLERS reach the Core Code, it is damaged.  If too
many reach it, it is a HARD CRASH and the level is lost (but it may be
reattempted).  Delta's AVATAR can return to the Core Code to be repaired
before it experiences a SOFT CRASH.

DISASSEMBLERS
Disassemblers are the "creeps" of traditional tower defense.  They
(generally) follow the PATHS present in a given level, although certain
disassemblers can ignore the Paths and travel over other obstructions.
Some (but not all) Disassemblers have offensive capabilities, able to
cause DAMAGE to PROGRAMS or even Delta's AVATAR.

Destroying Disassemblers provides Delta with EXECUTION POINTS.

HEALTH
Health is a graphical/numeric representation of how much DAMAGE a
PROGRAM, DISASSEMBLER, Delta's AVATAR, or her CORE CODE can take.

DAMAGE
PROGRAMS, DISASSEMBLERS, and Delta's AVATAR and CORE CODE can all take
damage.  When Disassemblers and Programs take more damage than their
HEALTH allows, they are destroyed; if Delta's Avatar takes more damage
than her health allows, she experiences a SOFT CRASH.  When the Core
Code takes more damage than its health allows, she experiences a HARD
CRASH.

SOFT CRASH
If Delta's AVATAR takes too much DAMAGE, she experiences a Soft Crash.
The CONTROL PANEL blanks out temporarily while her awareness reboots;
while this occurs, the game continues to run in the background (so
DISASSEMBLERS continue to approach), but all PROGRAMS are temporarily
disabled.  After the SOFT CRASH is over, Delta's AVATAR is returned to
her CORE CODE to continue playing.

HARD CRASH
If Delta's CORE CODE takes too much DAMAGE, she experiences a Hard Crash.
This causes an immediate loss of that Battlefield, although it may be
immediately re-attempted.  In addition, Delta may only keep a portion of
the EXECUTION POINTS she gained during the battle.

CODEBASES
Codebases provide the foundation for PROGRAMS, which Delta uses to attack
the DISASSEMBLERS that are attempting to compromise her CORE CODE.  Most
Codebases start out inactive, and Delta must build TRACES to their INPUTS
to activate them.  Programs on an inactive codebase do nothing.

Some spaces on Codebases hide MEMORY SHARDS; these are revealed and added
to the DATABANKS whenever a Program is built on top of the space that
hides the Memory Shard.

TRACES
Traces are the pathways by which Delta's CORE CODE provide executable
energy to CODEBASES, DEVICE TOWERS, and UPGRADES.  Traces cost nothing,
but Delta must spend time building them, and leaving a Trace incomplete
destroys that Trace.  Some locations on a BATTLEFIELD (the tops of
Codebases, Device Towers, and Upgrades, along with other specially-marked
locations) cannot have Traces built on top of them.

CONTROL PANEL
(Technical note: any static art on the panel must be toggleable to fight
potential burn-in on certain monitors and TVs.)
